
David Ribes - prospecting (in) the data sciences.

Prospecting: looking for spaces for profit, that which could be extracted. 

Theme in the big data hub and spokes ecosystem is for example the use of data to address societal grand challenges. Big Data/Data science will touch upon topics accross many diverse fields. The hub comes in contact with anything, and the scientists aren't necessarily even aware of it. 

Data scientists treats data as the object of study; like when information scientists studied information as the object - to find regularities.

Prospecting: seeking and brokering acces to resources.. Where does the desire to prospect all these fields come from? They are looking at data, experties, software & tools... or "the domains" (that which got what they want)

It is something about the field that makes it have to go prospect, since it is about anything, but has no data of its own.
> a structured propensity for data science

Domains: domain experties is linked in a tripod/overlap with mathematics and data science, seen as being on equal foot, but also always different, or an essential add-on. There is always something else that constitutes the data science: the other.

Def: Any worldly sphere of activity or knowledge. 

Domain independence, agnosticism, generality and/or statistical theory  VS  Domain specific, knowledge, experties and/or "real world".

Inbetween there is a form of extraction, capture, representation.

Gains a new quality to it when linked to AI/ cognitive science in the 50s onwards. In the 1980 its crystalized within software engineering as successfull systems were made to aid expert cultures. Mirrors the expert's model of the world, by aquiring/extracting it. 

Resulted in an first "expert system shell", still in the 1970s. Every time these computer scientists worked with a domain they had no experties about they established the practice of prospecting. Offering to test/construct customized expert systems in different fields was a way of gaining access and being able to extract (knowledge). 

The stack is an alternative to the circle in which data science touches upon all the fields in the peripheries: "Down is the core information technologies; up is the domain specific" 

Only mathematics and data scientists were in the 90s the only ones that could currate these databases - authority 
