

I go one step further than Star and do not simply assume to study communities of practice. Many of the spaces are shared by different staff. One could not simply say that some meetings build new boundaries, because the boundaries are rather re-negotiated across several forums. Rather I question the pragmatist approach to the role of the mediator and the work of caretaker. Two roles are combined, like in the study of NAV, in a way that the relationship between these interests. One one side there is the co-construction of the instructional design and technology, and on the other conserns with the individualization process (looking at the interest of the subject in the 'choreography of ontologies'). 

This could be understood as two forms of value (ansvar og kvalitet boka): self-interest and social value. It could be understood as the move towards understanding social value institutionally (foucualt's respons to marxist political economy). Rather than applying a traditional social scientific question to an online setting through innovative ethnography - seeing the desktop bureaucracy in action - I use an ethnographic study into the online to study the formation of 'digital information'. I try to ask a digital studies question to a traditional social scientific phenomena.



Ch.1

I am studying the process of search for value among the different actors in an organization. 
The organization is defined by the different communities connection to a space, and the spatial effects of a cloud-based system on the place.

I am interested in the imaginaries that guide their relationship with the class-room, and the act of classing this physical spaces. 

The spaces of the school look not much different than before, except for the use of group rooms. One could rather say that initial changes from a previous reform has been put on holt, and is rotting away (ecological methaphor). 

-An administrative supervisor has been hired, who has a responsibility for the building.
-The ganitor posed as an interesting person that I never talked to **perhaps I should? I rather got to know his work by talking to the IT-supervisor.


With this organizational approach I want to show that the classing of the rooms is done through the adoption of organizational (or corporative and cooperative) law... (*)



 
Ch.2 The national level

The organisational perspective comes under question as constructed and performed in accordance with 'central' tenents of the school system. I further develop an institutional view of accounting devices, or what I present as an socio-ontological approach to a changing ethics. This raises questions about what an ANT approach to an information system can teach us. Poll's idea of changing relations of care is combined with the institutional interestment in forms of accountability. We see how some forms of memory are made to work, and others not. 

I question the relevance of Latour's scepticism with 'that which is being produced' in a process of standardization and economization. And I show to Engh's questioning of how pedagogic norms relate to standards of evaluating in the learning materials - ways of knowing and ways of being present. 

In this chapter I study the notion of the grid - of that which is known. How could the act of evaluating FOR learning change how learning is known and valued. How could it be seen in relationship to empiri (the last triangle) and the social work of learning science - the normative aspects of pedagogy. 

Considering how such work is done at an national level means considering how the state is intervening in the work of building knowledge repositories and defining the boundaries of access. How they are mediating the transnational technopedagogic agenda through the networks that define the new teacher role. 

The learning object is known through the educational infrastructure of a 'globalizing' economy. 



Ch.3


